link of the video from where I referred - https://youtu.be/BCQHnlnPusY
Git is a version control.
Github is a website where you can do projects that have version control on them.

Repository - A github repository is another word for a project. IT can have multiple files associated with it.
Commit - It is another word for "save".
Commit hash - Unique identifier associated with a commit.


link of the video from where I referred - https://youtu.be/oPpnCh7InLY
Branches
Pull request - Take some changes from a particular branch and bring them into another branch

1.3-3rd video - https://youtu.be/_NrSWLQsDL4
Fork - Takinh entire other instance of repo and just having it under your account
Pull request - sending the code to the original repository

1.5 - 5th video - Linux commands - https://youtu.be/oK8EvVeVltE
cd- change directory
ls- lists the contents of current working directory
pwd- print working directory

1.6 - 6th video - https://youtu.be/yXT1ElMEkW8
Git Commands :
git config --list
git status
git commit
git log
git remote : It lists all the remotes
git remote -v : -v means verbose and it displays the information about the remotes

1.7 - 7th video - https://youtu.be/9p2d-CuVlgc
In this video lecture we will learn about how to turn a project into a git repository and then put the git repository on github.
SO basically we have a project locally in our system. For example in VSCode or any text editor, and now we want to put that project in github, so below are the steps to achieve this -
git init : it will turn a project to a git repository
git add : this is used to stage
git commit -m "Code is ready to push" : it saves the changes locally in your system
git push orgin dev
//This will give an error saying origin doesn't appear in git repository. This is because if my repository started on github and I brought it down to my computer a remote is already been attached to it, but if you are starting your repository on your computer it doesn't have a remote associated with it.
So now go to github and create a new repository. After this come back to terminal and write
git remote add origin <url of your repository>
Now if you will write git remote or git remote -v, you will see a remote with the name origin
So now to push the code
git push origin main

 
1.8 - 8th video - https://youtu.be/bFVtrlyH-kc
GIthub pages- to host a staic website. Hosting is not possible cause github doesn't has a server. Azure or heruko has a server


To create a new branch 
 Two ways :
    1st way:
            git branch branchName
            git checkout new-feature
    2nd way:
            git checkout -b new-feature
And that's it! You have now created a new branch in Git. You can make changes to this branch and commit them just like you would on the master branch. When you're ready to merge the changes from this branch back into the master branch, you can use the git merge command.



